
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jhIOAvkNvdo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

 <strong>Pam Kent <br>
 <strong>DICE 3020 <br>
 <strong>Major Assignment 2: The Shock of the Old<br>
 
 One of the first typewriters in China was developed around 1897 by Devello Sheffield, while it is known as a typewriter, as we can see in the video it doesn’t resemble some of the more modern keyboard interfaces that we think of now.  Instead, the design had 20-30 concentric rings.  Trying to imagine how one would use this typewriter and the amount of characters on it, between 4,000 and 5,000, would mean that only those familiar with the typewriter and the way it worked could actually use it efficiently.  In terms of the characters, they were not organized by any standard Chinese dictionary at the time, the later rectangular designs would have been designed this way.  Instead it was organized with characters arranged by frequency of use on the outer rings and the inner rings would be lesser used characters and there was apparently a section that was devoted to characters used for Sheffield’s missionary work, so this would have taken some getting used to for the operators and they would have to be familiar with religious teachings.
 
Comparing Sheffield’s design to a more modern typewriter developed for the Chinese language, the biggest difference is the shape.  Other than that, most typewriter manufacturers would decide to keep roughly the same amount of characters.  Looking at this from a design perspective, Sheffield’s typewriter would have been harder to use, especially for anyone not familiar with the layout, than rectangular designs that came after.  It would have been quite hard to easily find any of the characters and would have required a lot more time to print anything when first learning how to use it, whereas with the rectangular design you can see all of the characters and you wouldn’t have to turn any wheels to find which one you were looking for. 
     
To give an idea of what China looked like when Sheffield arrived and the socioeconomic conditions that surround the development of his typewriter, he came in a time after the Taiping Rebellion when much of the Yangzi River basin, where much of the economic trade was happening, was left in ruins.  This combined with the aftermath of the Opium Wars led to a dramatic change in the economy and made China seem to Westerners as a poor and underdeveloped country.  The year he arrived, 1870, was also the year the Tianjin massacre where false rumors about the French Sisters of Charity kidnapping children led to attacks on Christian missionaries and converts which led to numerous deaths and nearly sparked a war.  So there would have been a lot of tension towards Christianity at the time when Sheffield arrived and there would have been a risk of violence toward Western influence.  Nevertheless, Christian missionaries, like Sheffield, were allowed freely into the country, while western businessmen were allowed to open factories there. They were allowed to lease ports and operate them according to their own laws.  Sheffield decided to devote his time to learning how to speak and write the Chinese language.  He decided to develop an operational typewriter in order to aid in the production of his religious teachings.  Using this typewriter for religious purposes would have also had the potential to change China’s religious identity.  Sheffield had more reasoning for creating this typewriter than just the intention the convert Chinese people to the Christian faith however, he apparently wanted to be able to use it to compose documents himself without the use of an assistant saying “the finished product will be found to have lost in this process no slight proportion of what the writer wished to say, and to have taken on quite as large a proportion of what the Chinese assistant contributed to the thought.[1]”  This suggests anxiety around the translations that were relied upon when foreigners would use Chinese writers, it was feared they could change their writings with malicious intent.  The aim then was to allow full control of their own materials and thus spread Western ideals without worry of losing its meaning.      
 
It took him more than ten years to fully develop his typewriter, completing it in 1897 and it would never be mass manufactured.  While it was never mass produced, Sheffield did manage to reduce the time and labor when it came to typesetting in Chinese, as it would have eliminated the need to make individual stamps for typesetting.  His ideas carried on in subsequent models of Chinese typewriters.  While developing his typewriter, he would go to local foundries and typesetting offices and speak to the workers who had the most experience with using Chinese typeface to determine what characters would be the most commonly used.  
 
As the Chinese language uses a logographic system of writing, for all of the characters to fit onto a typewriter was a challenging feat of engineering.  Sheffield’s typewriter demonstrates how cognitive processes might have been altered.  Decision-making and memory would have been changed with the decisions of which characters to keep for the typewriter, the special characters that would be left out had the potential to never be used again and therefore might be forgotten and lost over time.  Sheffield’s typewriter would have created some obstacles for Chinese people at first as the characters were limited to the simplified character so the original meaning may change, there was understandably some pushback as the typewriter was made to suit the English language rather than adapting to Chinese language traditions.  This would have altered the values of Chinese writers as there were thousands of years of traditional literature and history that they wanted to understandably uphold.  As Ong says “the loss of literature will be enormous, but not so enormous as a Chinese typewriter using over 40,000 characters,[2]” while he is referring to the complexity of writing in Chinese and the potential for a shift into the roman alphabet, this speaks to the truly daunting task it would have been to create a typewriter to accommodate the Chinese  system of writing.  But ultimately, the typewriter would have made it easier to produce the Chinese language for non-native speakers and would have allowed for easier distribution and production of Chinese print.  
 
  
 
 
 
 References:<br>
 
 [1]Mullaney, Thomas S. The Chinese Typewriter : A History. Studies of the
       Weatherhead East Asian Institute, Columbia University. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
       2017.
 
 [2]Ong, Walter J. Orality and Literacy: 30th Anniversary Edition. Florence, UNITED STATES: Taylor & Francis Group, 2012. http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/seattleu/detail.action?docID=3061023.
 
 Company, Sudo Null. “Sudo Null - Latest IT News.” SudoNull. Accessed May 22, 2020. https://sudonull.com/post/16626-Chinese-typewriter-anecdote-engineering-masterpiece-symbol.
 
 Greene, J. Megan. “Tianjin Massacre, 1870.” In The International Encyclopedia of Revolution and Protest, 1–2. American Cancer Society, 2009. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781405198073.wbierp1452.
 
 Glahn, Richard von. “Economic Depression and the Silver Question in Nineteenth-Century China.” In Global History and New Polycentric Approaches: Europe, Asia and the Americas in a World Network System, edited by Manuel Perez Garcia and Lucio De Sousa, 81–118. Palgrave Studies in Comparative Global History. Singapore: Springer, 2018. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-4053-5_5.
 
 

